README.md, before:

# AI Blog Generator

A Spring Boot API that generates blog posts using OpenAI and commits them as MDX files to a GitHub repository.

## How It Works

1. You send a `POST /api/generate` request with a topic
2. The API calls OpenAI to generate a full blog post (title, description, tags, and markdown content)
3. The post is formatted as an MDX file with frontmatter
4. The MDX file is committed directly to your GitHub repository via the Contents API
5. If your site has continuous deployment, the new post triggers a redeploy automatically

## Tech Stack

- Java 24
- Spring Boot 3.4.3
- Spring Web (RestClient)
- Maven
- Java Records for DTOs and models

## Project Structure

```
src/main/java/com/maxthomarino/res/
├── ResApplication.java                  # Spring Boot entry point
├── controller/
│   └── GenerateController.java          # POST /api/generate endpoint
├── dto/
│   ├── GenerateRequest.java             # Request body record
│   └── GenerateResponse.java            # Response body record
├── model/
│   └── BlogPost.java                    # Blog post record
└── service/
    ├── BlogGeneratorService.java        # Orchestrates LLM + GitHub
    ├── LlmService.java                  # OpenAI chat completions client
    └── GitHubService.java               # GitHub Contents API client
```

## Prerequisites

- **Java 24**
- **OpenAI API key**
- **GitHub personal access token** with `contents:write` permission on the target repository

## Setup & Running

Create `src/main/resources/application-local.properties` with your keys:

```properties
openai.api-key=sk-...
github.token=ghp_...
```

Run with the Maven wrapper:

```bash
./mvnw.cmd spring-boot:run "-Dspring-boot.run.profiles=local"
```

The server starts on `http://localhost:8080`.

## Quick Generate Script

For a one-command workflow, use `generate-post.cmd`. Open it, set your topic on the `TOPIC` line, and run:

```bash
./generate-post.cmd
```

This starts the server, generates the blog post, commits it to GitHub, and shuts down the server automatically.

## API Usage

### `POST /api/generate`

Generate a blog post and commit it to GitHub.

**Request:**

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/generate \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"topic": "Why Rust is great for CLI tools"}'
```

**Request body:**

```json
{
  "topic": "Why Rust is great for CLI tools"
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "slug": "why-rust-is-great-for-cli-tools",
  "title": "Why Rust Is Great for CLI Tools",
  "commitUrl": "https://github.com/user/repo/commit/abc123",
  "message": "Blog post generated and committed"
}
```

## Example

Here's a live post generated by this tool: [A Brief History of Polymorphism: From Ancient Ideas to Modern Code](https://www.maxthomarino.com/blog/a-brief-history-of-polymorphism-from-ancient-ideas-to-modern-code)

## Configuration

Properties in `src/main/resources/application.properties`:

| Property | Default | Environment Variable | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `openai.api-key` | — | `OPENAI_API_KEY` | OpenAI API key |
| `openai.model` | `gpt-5.2` | — | OpenAI model to use |
| `github.token` | — | `GITHUB_TOKEN` | GitHub personal access token |
| `github.repo` | `maxthomarino/portfolio_new` | — | Target `owner/repo` for commits |

## MDX Output Format

Each generated post is committed to `src/content/blog/{slug}.mdx` with this structure:

```mdx
---
title: "Post Title"
date: "2025-03-15"
description: "A short description of the post"
tags: ["Tag1", "Tag2", "Tag3"]
---

The markdown content of the blog post...
```

Commit message:

Update README and CHANGELOG for review-revise feature

README.md, after:

# AI Blog Generator

A Spring Boot API that generates blog posts using OpenAI and commits them as MDX files to a GitHub repository.

## How It Works

1. You send a `POST /api/generate` request with a topic
2. The API calls OpenAI to generate a full blog post (title, description, tags, and markdown content)
3. If `iterations` > 1, the post goes through review/revise cycles — a critic prompt identifies weaknesses, then the post is rewritten to address them
4. The post is formatted as an MDX file with frontmatter
5. The MDX file is committed directly to your GitHub repository via the Contents API
6. If your site has continuous deployment, the new post triggers a redeploy automatically

## Tech Stack

- Java 24
- Spring Boot 3.4.3
- Spring Web (RestClient)
- Maven
- Java Records for DTOs and models

## Project Structure

```
src/main/java/com/maxthomarino/res/
├── ResApplication.java                  # Spring Boot entry point
├── controller/
│   ├── GenerateController.java          # POST /api/generate endpoint
│   └── GlobalExceptionHandler.java      # Global exception handling
├── dto/
│   ├── GenerateRequest.java             # Request body record
│   └── GenerateResponse.java            # Response body record
├── model/
│   └── BlogPost.java                    # Blog post record
└── service/
    ├── BlogGeneratorService.java        # Orchestrates LLM + GitHub
    ├── LlmService.java                  # OpenAI chat completions client
    └── GitHubService.java               # GitHub Contents API client
```

## Prerequisites

- **Java 24**
- **OpenAI API key**
- **GitHub personal access token** with `contents:write` permission on the target repository

## Setup & Running

Create `src/main/resources/application-local.properties` with your keys:

```properties
openai.api-key=sk-...
github.token=ghp_...
```

Run with the Maven wrapper:

```bash
./mvnw.cmd spring-boot:run "-Dspring-boot.run.profiles=local"
```

The server starts on `http://localhost:8080`.

## Quick Generate Script

For a one-command workflow, use `generate-post.cmd`. Open it, set your `TOPIC` and `ITERATIONS` (default 2), and run:

```bash
./generate-post.cmd
```

This starts the server, generates the blog post, commits it to GitHub, and shuts down the server automatically.

## API Usage

### `POST /api/generate`

Generate a blog post and commit it to GitHub.

**Request:**

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/generate \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"topic": "Why Rust is great for CLI tools", "iterations": 2}'
```

**Request body:**

```json
{
  "topic": "Why Rust is great for CLI tools",
  "iterations": 2
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "slug": "why-rust-is-great-for-cli-tools",
  "title": "Why Rust Is Great for CLI Tools",
  "commitUrl": "https://github.com/user/repo/commit/abc123",
  "message": "Blog post generated and committed"
}
```

## Example

Here's a live post generated by this tool: [A Brief History of Polymorphism: From Ancient Ideas to Modern Code](https://www.maxthomarino.com/blog/a-brief-history-of-polymorphism-from-ancient-ideas-to-modern-code)

## Configuration

Properties in `src/main/resources/application.properties`:

| Property | Default | Environment Variable | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `openai.api-key` | — | `OPENAI_API_KEY` | OpenAI API key |
| `openai.model` | `gpt-5.2` | — | OpenAI model to use |
| `github.token` | — | `GITHUB_TOKEN` | GitHub personal access token |
| `github.repo` | `maxthomarino/portfolio_new` | — | Target `owner/repo` for commits |

## MDX Output Format

Each generated post is committed to `src/content/blog/{slug}.mdx` with this structure:

```mdx
---
title: "Post Title"
date: "2025-03-15"
description: "A short description of the post"
tags: ["Tag1", "Tag2", "Tag3"]
---

The markdown content of the blog post...
```
